[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We talked
about parsing and making trees.
So this is some HTML text.
This is a tree that it expands into and
there are some interesting
things to observe about this.
One is first we've got lowercase here and
uppercase here.
So when the web first started, the first
generation of webmasters typed their
markup all in upper case cuz
they wanted to stand out.
They wanted make it really
obvious what was markup and
what was content, and writing it
all in uppercase made that clearer.
After a few years of that, they got
tired of leaning on the Shift key and
they decided what the hell and
it's all lowercase now.
That transition happened just as
Brendon was designing the DOM.
And so the DOM had to pick
a convention and the convention
was let's go with uppercase because that's
what people were using at the time.
So everything that's lowercase here
gets shifted up to uppercase there.
And you need to be aware of that
because sometimes it doesn't matter but
sometimes it does matter.
So you need to be aware.
Then there are features in
the tree that are not in the text.
For example, I did not specify a head tag,
but there is a head tag in the tree.
So it'll add extra bits to the markup.
Another place we'll do that is in a table.
If you don't specify a tbody,
it'll stick a tbody in there for you.
And that can get you into trouble if
you're trying to parse around things,
and you'll find levels of content
that you didn't expect to find.
Then the other thing here is that
this is the ideal Microsoft tree.
So Microsoft IE6 would
make a tree like this one.
W3C under the influence of
the SGL community said no,
you need to have more stuff than that.
For example the whitespace
between here and
here, which you would ordinarily ignore,
that has to go into the tree.
Microsoft correctly decided,
no we shouldn't do that because
that's just a waste of space.
But everybody else did and
now Microsoft did, everybody does that.
But I went with Microsoft tree
because the real tree is too hairy and
it's hard to talk about, so
I'm going with the simpler tree instead.
Then there's some implied
hierarchy in this.
For example, you've got h1, h2 and
it kind of looks like the h2
is subordinate to h1.
And the Ps are subordinate to that,
but they're not.
They're all at the same level in the tree.
So you need to be aware of that.
Then on the JavaScript side,
in the browser,
there is a global variable called
document, which is the root of the tree.
And document.body is a shortcut for
getting to the body node.
There is also a shortcut for
getting to the HTML node,
which is called document element.
Which is your thing can
be called HTML right?
Cuz it goes to that one.
And the reason it isn't is because at the
time that document element was created,
W3C was planning to kill HTML and
they didn't want to leave
that evidence in the DOM.
So they went with a longer name,
so that no one would know.
But that plot didn't work.
So this is a subset of the same tree,
I turned it sideways to
demonstrate the next thing.
So each node has pointers to other nodes.
For example, each node has a first
child and a last child node.
Which points to the children.
These are neglected middle children,
they don't get pointers.
Then each of those P node
only has one child, so
both pointers point to the same element.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then
there are sibling pointers, next sibling
and previous sibling when at that way
the body will have a sibling
relationship with the head tag.
These guys are cousins, and
you'll be glad to know there are no cousin
pointers.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then there is
the parent node pointer which goes up.
The body will have a parent
node going to html.
HTML will go up to the document root.
And you might be going lordy
that's a lot of pointers.
So if I edit this tree,
do I have to update all those pointers,
that could be kinda hairy.
And the answer is no,
that in fact you cannot edit the tree.
These are all read only
from your perspective,
you have to use the DOM API if
you want to edit this tree.
And I'll show you that API in a moment.
Now if it turns out all you want
to do is traverse the tree, for
example if you want to visit
every node in display order.
You don't need all these pointers, right?
If you understand how recursion works,
you only need a binary tree, right?
You can make that with two pointers.
So I can use first child the next
sibling with a walk the DOM function.
It's recursive function which
knows how to do that traversal.
And that allows me to do things like
implement get elements by name.
By passing in a function which will look
for names and compile things into a list.
In addition to all of those pointers,
each node also has a list of child nodes
which is kind of like an array which
will have all of the children in it.